RHDEVDOCS-7543: Content creation for using API tokens (#112162)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-authenticating-pipelines-repos-using-secrets.adoc

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
// * secure/authenticating-pipelines-repos-using-secrets.adoc

> :_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

Reviewer: This module contains a `.Procedure`, so the module type should be `PROCEDURE` instead of `REFERENCE`.

```suggestion
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
```

Author: Fixed.

[id="op-authenticating-pipelines-repos-using-secrets_{context}"]
= Authenticating to Bitbucket Cloud using API tokens

[role="_abstract"]

> If you use private repositories hosted on Bitbucket Cloud, you can authenticate repository access in OpenShift Pipelines by using a Bitbucket API token stored in a Kubernetes secret.

Reviewer: Consider using the product attribute here for consistency with the rest of this assembly.

```suggestion
If you use private repositories hosted on Bitbucket Cloud, you can authenticate repository access in {pipelines-title} by using a Bitbucket Cloud API token stored in a Kubernetes secret.
```

Author: Fixed.

Bitbucket Cloud API tokens are recommended for CI/CD automation and can be scoped with limited permissions for repository access.

.Procedure

> . Create an API token in Bitbucket Cloud with repository read permissions.

Reviewer: Minor precision: Bitbucket Cloud names this permission `Repositories: Read`. Using the permission name directly helps users select the correct scope.

```suggestion
. Create a Bitbucket Cloud API token with `Repositories: Read` permissions.
```

Author: Fixed.

. Create a secret in your OpenShift cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
oc create secret generic bitbucket-auth \
  --from-literal=username=<bitbucket-username> \
  --from-literal=password=<bitbucket-api-token>

> ----

Reviewer: This creates an `Opaque` secret without a `tekton.dev/git-*` annotation. For service-account based Git authentication, Tekton/OpenShift Pipelines expects a supported Git secret type, such as `kubernetes.io/basic-auth`, and a `tekton.dev/git-*` annotation that maps the credentials to the Git host. Without that annotation, Pipelines will not know to use this secret for `https://bitbucket.org`.

Consider creating a Basic HTTP auth secret and then annotating it for Bitbucket Cloud, for example:

```adoc
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret generic bitbucket-auth \
  --type=kubernetes.io/basic-auth \
  --from-literal=username=<bitbucket-username> \
  --from-literal=password=<bitbucket-api-token>
----
+
. Annotate the secret so that {pipelines-shortname} uses it for Bitbucket Cloud repositories:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc annotate secret bitbucket-auth tekton.dev/git-0=https://bitbucket.org
----
```

Author: Fixed.

. Attach the secret to the service account used by your pipeline by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> oc secrets link pipeline bitbucket-auth

Reviewer: This assumes the service account is named `pipeline`. Consider making the service account name a placeholder, or make it explicit that `pipeline` is only an example.

```suggestion
$ oc secrets link <service_account_name> bitbucket-auth
```

Author: Fixed.

----

. Reference the repository in your `git-clone` task:
+
[source,yaml]
----
params:
  - name: url
    value: https://bitbucket.org/<workspace>/<repository>.git
----

> When prompted for Git authentication, use your Bitbucket username and API token instead of an account password.

Reviewer: Pipeline execution is non-interactive, so users are not prompted for Git credentials during the `git-clone` task. The credentials must be supplied through the annotated secret linked to the service account. Also, please add a trailing newline at the end of the file.

```suggestion
At runtime, the `git-clone` task uses the credentials from the `bitbucket-auth` secret for HTTPS Git URLs that match `https://bitbucket.org`.
```

Author: Fixed.

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
// * secure/authenticating-pipelines-repos-using-secrets.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="op-authenticating-pipelines-repos-using-secrets_{context}"]
= Authenticating to Bitbucket Cloud using API tokens

[role="_abstract"]
If you use private repositories hosted on Bitbucket Cloud, you can authenticate repository access in {pipelines-title} by using a Bitbucket Cloud API token stored in a Kubernetes secret.

Bitbucket Cloud API tokens are recommended for CI/CD automation and can be scoped with limited permissions for repository access.

.Procedure

> . Create a Bitbucket Cloud API token with `Repositories: Read` permissions.

Reviewer 2: Small suggestion:
Bitbucket naming.

```suggestion
. Create a Bitbucket Cloud API token with `Repositories: Read` permission scope.
```

Author: Fixed.

. Create a secret in your OpenShift cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret generic bitbucket-auth \
  --type=kubernetes.io/basic-auth \

>   --from-literal=username=<bitbucket-username> \

Reviewer 2: Suggestion:

```suggestion
  --from-literal=username=<bitbucket_username> \
```

Per: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#user-replaced-values

(But I see other modules here also use hyphens, so it's fine by me if you leave these as is.)

Author: Fixed.

>   --from-literal=password=<bitbucket-api-token>

Reviewer 2: Same as above:

```suggestion
  --from-literal=password=<bitbucket_api_token>
```
Per: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#user-replaced-values

Author: Fixed.

----
+
[NOTE]
====
You can use either your Bitbucket username or the static username `x-bitbucket-api-token-auth` as the username value when authenticating with a Bitbucket Cloud API token.
====
+
. Annotate the secret to enable {pipelines-shortname} to use it for Bitbucket Cloud repositories.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc annotate secret bitbucket-auth tekton.dev/git-0=https://bitbucket.org
----

. Attach the secret to the service account used by your pipeline by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc secrets link <service_account_name> bitbucket-auth
----

. Reference the repository in your `git-clone` task:
+
[source,yaml]
----
params:
  - name: url
    value: https://bitbucket.org/<workspace>/<repository>.git
----

> At runtime, the `git-clone` task uses the credentials from the `bitbucket-auth` secret for HTTPS Git URLs that match `https://bitbucket.org`.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: 
A bit more direct wording.

```suggestion
At runtime, the `git-clone` task uses credentials from the `bitbucket-auth` secret when accessing HTTPS Git URLs matching `https://bitbucket.org`.
```

Author: Fixed.
